Motor Vehicle Act 1988, section -185 202


At the time of driving if your 100ml. blood contains more than 30mg. of alcohol then police can arrest you without a warrant.

Section 202(3) in The Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. (3) A police officer arresting without warrant the driver of a motor vehicle shall if the circumstances so require take or cause to be taken any steps he may consider proper for the temporary disposal of the vehicle.

Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. 158(6), 166(4), 196  Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1950  r. 150  Motor accident , Compensation , In cases of hit and run unidentified vehicles; uninsured vehicles; gratuitous passengers; passengers in goods vehicles; procedural delays in adjudication/settlement of claims; and where compensation amount does not reach the claimants, directions issued and suggestions made by the Court Directions to the police authorities and claims tribunals for implementation of provisions u/ss.

158(6), 166(4), 196 and r.150 Direction to Insurance companies to lodge complaint in cases of forged driving licences Suggestions made for legislative/executive interference to amend and enact more comprehensive law Suggestions also made to Insurance Companies.

In the instant Special Leave Petition, the Court addressed to four problems generally faced in motor accident cases.

(i)	Victims who do not receive compensation in cases, that is

(a) hit and run vehicles which remain unidentified.
(b) offending vehicles not having insurance cover and
(c) vehicles with third party insurance carrying persons not covered by insurance (gratuitous passengers and pillion riders etc.).

(ii)	Practice of using goods vehicles for passenger transport.

(iii)	Procedural delay in adjudication/settlement of claims by Motor Accident Claims Tribunal.

(iv)	The entire compensation amount not reaching and benefitting the victims and their families.


Adjourning the matter, the Court gave following directions / suggestions: Suggestions For Legislative and Executive Intervention


To ensure that all accident victims get compensation, it is necessary to formulate a more comprehensive scheme for payment of compensation to the victims of road accidents, in place of the present system of third party insurance.

An alternative scheme involves the collection of a one time (life time) third party insurance premium by a Central Insurance Agency in respect of every vehicle sold (in a manner similar to the collection of life time road tax).

The fund created by collection of such third party insurance can be augmented/supplemented by an appropriate road accident cess/surcharge on the price of petrol/diesel sold across the country.

Such a hybrid model which involves collection of a fixed life time premium in regard to each vehicle plus imposition of a road accident cess may provide a more satisfactory solution in a vast country like India.