Maximum Retail Price Act, 2014


Any Shop keeper cant charge more than the printed price of any commodity but a consumer has the right to bargain for less than the printed price of a commodity.

In today's scenario it is usually found that the prices of consumer goods traded in the markets are settled arbitrarily by the manufacturers. Even you can realize that in a market where within one city, different products have different rates of taxes, it becomes very difficult for consumers to check whether retailers are actually charging the correct amount of local taxes on the products they sell. Therefore the confusion in respect of price of the goods is natural for the consumer and the manufacturers gain huge profit as the actual manufacturing cost is very low. The manufacturers arbitrarily fix the price and the consumers are compelled to purchase goods at higher costs.

Under the Weights and Measures (Packaged Commodities) Rules, all packed goods should carry certain essential information on the contents of the package, such as its weight or volume, the name and address of the manufacturer, the date of manufacture, and in case of food packages, the best before date and, of course, the maximum retail price (MRP).

 

Under the Consumer Goods (Mandatory Printing of Cost of Production and Maximum Retail Price) Act, 2006, certain guidelines has been provided so that the consumer can not charged over to the maximum price printed on the goods by the manufacturer. These guidelines are as follows:
1. consumer goods mean all goods and items brought in the market for sale and are meant for the use and consumption of the consumers;

2. cost of production means cost incurred directly or indirectly by the manufacturer in the production of goods;

3.printing means printing of the cost of production and retail price at a visible place on the product in Hindi and English and the local language of the place it is sold; and

4. maximum retail price means such price at which the product shall be sold in retail and such price shall include all taxes levied on the product.
The legislation has made it mandatory for the manufacturers to printing of cost of production and maximum retail price on packaging of consumer goods, so that the consumer could not get overcharged by the agents/dealer.