Indian Srius Act, 1887


Even any 5 star hotel cant prohibit you from drinking potable water and using its washrooms.

Interpretation-clause. In this Act, unless there be something repugnant in the subject or context,Sarai.

Sarai means any building used for the shelter and accommodation of travellers, and includes, in any case in which only part of a building is used as a sarai, the part so used of such building. It also includes a purao so far as the provisions of this Act are applicable thereto. Keeper of a Sarai.

Keeper of a Sarai includes the owner and any person having or acting in the care or management thereof. Magistrate of the District.

Magistrate of the District means the chief officer charged with the executive administration of a district in criminal matters whatever may be his designation.

Duties of keepers of Sarais.The keeper of a Sarai shall be bound.
(1) when any person in such Sarai is ill of any infectious or contagious disease, or dies of such disease, to give immediate notice thereof to the nearest police-station.

(2) at all times when required by any Magistrate or any other person duly authorized by the Magistrate of the District in this behalf, to give him free access to the Sarai and allow him to inspect the same or any part thereof.

(3) to thoroughly cleanse the rooms and verandahs, and drains of the Sarai and the wells, tanks, or other sources from which water is obtained for the persons or animals using it to the satisfaction of and so often as shall be required by, the Magistrate of the District, or such person as he shall appoint in this behalf.

(4) to remove all noxious vegetation on or near the Sarai, and all trees and branches of tree capable of affording to thieves means of entering or leaving the Sarai.

(5) to keep the gates, walls, fences, roofs and drains of the Sarai in repair.

(6) to provide such number of watchmen as may, in the opinion of the Magistrate of the District, subject to such rules as the 1[State Government] may prescribe in this behalf, be necessary for the safety and protection of persons and animals or vehicles lodging in, halting at or placed in the Sarai.

(7) to exhibit a list of charges for the use of the sarai at such place and in such form and languages as the Magistrate of the District shall from time to time direct.