Domestic Violence Act, 2005


1. If a young boy and a girl want to live together in live in relationship ,they can do so because it is not illegal. Even the new born from this relationship is also a legal son or daughter and this new born have the full right in the assets of his/her father.

2. Apart from the victim herself, the complaint regarding an act or act of domestic violence can also be lodged by any person who has a reason to believe that such an act was committed or is being committed. This means that neighbors, social workers, relatives can also take initiative. And the provisions of the Domestic Violence Act make sure that no criminal, civil or any other liability lies on the informer, if the complaint is lodged in good faith.

3. The magistrate has been given powers to permit the aggrieved women to stay in her place of adobe and she can not be evicted by her male relatives in the retaliation.

   This is not all; the aggrieved woman can even be allotted a part of the house for personal use.

4. The respondent can be prohibited from dispossessing the aggrieved person or in any other manner disturbing her possessions, entering the aggrieved persons place of work, if the aggrieved person is a child, the school. Also magistrate can bar the respondent to communicate with aggrieved person by personal, oral, written, electronic or telephonic contact.

5. The magistrate can impose monthly payments of maintenance. The respondent can also be ordered to meet the expenses incurred and losses suffered by the aggrieved person and any child of aggrieved person as a result of domestic violence. It can also cover loss of earnings, medical expenses, loss or damage to property.

   Under Sec 22 magistrate can make the respondent pay compensation and damages for injuries including mental torture and emotional distress caused by act(s) of domestic violence.

6. Penalty up to one-year and/or a fine up to Rs. 20,000/- can be imposed under under the act. The offence is also considered cognizable and non-bailable while Sec 32 (2) goes even says that under the sole testimony of the aggrieved person, the court may conclude that an offence has been committed by the accused.

7. The act ensures speedy justice as the court has to start proceedings and have the first hearing within 3 days of the complaint being filed in the court and every case must be disposed off within a period of sixty days of the first hearing.

8. The act makes provisions for state to provide for protection officers and status of service providers and medical facility.

9. Chapter 4 Sec 16 allows the magistrate to hold proceedings in camera if either party to the proceedings so desires.